Welcome back and this lecture we're going to talk about HMO components in more detail.
Now as I previously mentioned dasht allows you to leverage previous knowledge of H.M. and see access
to create very customized dashboards and the main process is you pick the relevant HTL component from
the HMO component library with dash and you can insert parameters into the HTML components and then
you adjust a CSI style dictionary which allows you to also define a general CSO style dictionary for
your entire web application.
Now I want to stress something.
Technically no knowledge of HTL or CSSA is truly needed to create a dash dashboard because we're never
actually writing pure HTML or pure CSSA.
Instead we're just doing calls to a Python library that does it for us.
But in order to actually stylize and customized dash dashboards especially to your specific liking it's
really going to be helpful to understand H.M. and CSSA to really get an idea of what these actual Python
calls are doing.
So I want to give you a quick rundown about the most basic HTL concepts you should know just for dash
and dashboard.
So there's two main things I want to clarify when you're using HTL components with your dash dashboard
and the main one you're going to be seeing on the HTL side is the div element and added element is a
division which basically means that's going to be a section or block of the web application.
And in our case the web application is just a dashboard so you can think of that as just a square block
somewhere on the page and then you can adjust things about it such as how large it is what's actually
going inside of it.
Usually for us it's going to be craft objects and then it's border it's styling et cetera.
So CSSA itself allows you to style those h HTML elements.
And mainly we're just going to be using div elements and then we'll be using a dictionary in order to
style that.
So CSSA that allows you to do things like give it a special font give a particular color borders and
so on and Dasch uses dictionaries to pass NCSA style calls.
So if you're already familiar of CSSA essentially what are doing here is instead of writing a CSSA file
or a cascading style sheet all you're doing is providing a dictionary for that each time element.
All right so let's see all these concepts in action by jumping over to our text editor.
OK here I am at my text editor.
Let's get started by just going over it.
HTL components.
First we need to do is import Dasch that will allow us to actually create our dash application.
And then we're going to import dash underscore each team all components as H.
Timo then we create our Dasch application by say dash dash and it's time to edit the layout.
But before we do that I'm going to say at the very bottom if name is equal to mean grab our application
and run the server.
So right now there's not anything in our application so let's provide it by grabbing the label attribute
of our application and adjusting it.
So this case as we've done before we're going to assign this to h T.M. div..
So this is a division inside the page and you've taken a list here.
And then provide any other things you want to insert into the page.
So previously we've done things like insert other divisions or insert core components such as graphs.
But the most basic thing you can insert here is just the string to be displayed in your dashboard.
So let's say this is the outermost div.
So that's all we're doing just passing a single string into that list and I'm going to run my application
will say Python basic about pi hit enter and Ellis jump over to the browser to write here 6:59 dash
and you probably have the saved as a favorite already OK there we go we have our outermost div essentially
just the text.
Now let's go ahead and see how we would be able to style this if we wanted to it's going to minimize
that again.
Well let's kill our server of control C and add in a spiled dictionary.
So as I mentioned you're going to pass in the content into this list and then each div can take in outside
of the list a style dictionary or style parameter I should say.
So here's our style parameter.
And that's going to be a dictionary where you can passen essentially any normal CSSA calls so familiar
of the SS that is going to feel really normal to you can do things like color.
So let's give this a color green and then we can also do things like give it a border.
So essentially just key value pairs.
Very familiar to you if you've already done stuff in C Ss and if you're really not familiar CSSA you
can check out the links in our actual guidebook which will help you learn CSSA so will say Tupi to pixel
green.
Give me a solid border there and you can do things like adjust the margin with we'll just do that for
now.
So let's check out how those stylings affect their dashboard.
We'll head back over to our browser and now as I'm in the browser I can see the font is now green.
That's from the color parameter and I can also see I have this border around that entire div and you
can do things like that at the margin and width of this actual border or div in order to make the smaller
or larger as you see fit.
So now let's add in more divisions into our actual dashboard.
Right now we just have one.
All right so what I want to do now is actually add in more divisions into our outermost div and the
way you do that is inside of this division list.
You can add in another HTL.
So I'm going to zoom out just so we can see the whole picture here.
T.M. div..
And then we can add in some other call here so I can say this is an inner div and just like that we
can also provide a style parameter.
And let's just make it obvious with let me put this on a new line.
Something like color red.
So give this inner div color red.
Make sure that's a string.
Now something I want to point out here is you may be wondering why that this div here need a list but
this div on the inside is not an list.
It's just that string.
Well the reason for that is because when you have multiple components inside your div then you do need
a list.
If you have a single component such as a single string or a single graph then you don't technically
need a list.
However you won't actually get an error if you do provide a list of just a single item.
So sometimes for safety so to speak in order to make sure you don't get any bugs you can also pass this
inside a list here for a single item inside this inner div.
It's not going to make a difference but notice how this div now has two items in it.
It has this outermost div string and then the second item inside that list is this inner div.
So keep that in mind as you're working with a dash and these divs again.
It's super easy to make a typo especially with the number of brackets.
So I would recommend if you're ever getting a syntax error on the typo you copy and paste over from
are provided notes.
So let's save this and see if we can now see this iterative.
So I'm going to run our dashboard again and hop over to the browser.
All right.
And there we see this interactive and notice here what's inside of this outermost div.
So it's being essentially encapsulated by that green border so we can see the red font indicating that
it's iterative and we have an outermost sieve and this may appear a little smaller screen so I can zoom
in to show you more clearly here.
Just keep in mind when you run this it won't be as large.
So let's go back and add in another div that's inside of this outermost div.
So I'm going to close this.
Here we are back to a text editor and inside this initial list right here.
And what's nice about Adam if you kind of put your cursor right for it you should see an underline saying
what bracket.
It's kind of aligned with.
So we're going to add in another div we'll say H T.M. div here and we'll say in another inner div and
let's give this guy also a style dictionary.
Now how my style dictionary is going outside of that initial list.
So say style and here let's give this the color let's say blue.
And let's also give these guys borders just to make it really clear.
Well say border let's give this guy a three pixel blue solid.
And let's also give this red one a border itself.
So border
let's say two pixel red solid OK.
So essentially these are a CSI style calls inside this dictionary.
And now this outermost div inside of this list has this string and then two divs inside of it.
And if it makes more sense to you you can't separate these out.
It's a variable called outside of this layout.
And then inject them inside here that we don't get confused with so many things inside of the single
call.
But let's go ahead and run this and see if we get back those two inner divs.
All right.
Here we are.
And now I can see this outermost div..
Notice how if you kind of zoom in here that the green border is all the way on the outside.
And then we have these two divisions the red one and the blue one right next to each other.
So that's really the basics of using Dasch HTL components especially the way we're going to be using
them in our dash dashboard.
Essentially we're just creating divisions and then inserting whatever we want into those divisions right
now where we're just inserting simple text.
But later on we'll be inserting dash core components things like plot like graphs or sliders or callbacks
or interactions into each device.
Hopefully this gives you an understanding of how this is related to the team.
And CSSA So let's quickly go over the main ideas here.
Okay so to quickly review and conclude this lecture.
Remember for Timo components mainly where you're going to be doing is you're going to be creating that
H team l div and if you have multiple items inside that div then you just create a list to hold the
components then outside of that list can be a style dictionary with a general form it is your style
parameter is equal to a dictionary where we have a particular CSSA property and then a particular value
for that property.
All right that's it for this lecture.
Coming up next we're going to talk about that core components and how we can integrate those with H.T.
of all components.
We'll see if there.